Edits/comments to therapeutics manuscript (#863)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/20.pharmaceuticals.md

Due to the continued threat of the virus and the severity of the disease, the identification and development of prophylactic and therapeutic interventions have emerged as significant international priorities.
Both approaches hold valuable potential for controlling the impact of the disease.
Prophylactics bolster immunity to prevent an individual from contracting a disease, whereas therapeutics treat a disease in individuals who have already been infected.

> While a number of vaccines have recently been developed, approved, or are currently being evaluated by the US Food and Drug Administration and other regional and international bodies, vaccination programs only started being rolled out at the very end of 2020 and beginning of 2021, meaning that treatments that palliate symptoms and prevent the most severe outcomes have been necessary for much of 2020 and will continue to be necessary for the foreseeable future.<!--Cite our vaccine manuscript here--> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While a number of vaccines have recently been developed, approved, or are currently being evaluated by the US Food and Drug Administration and other regional and international bodies, vaccination programs only started being rolled out at the very end of 2020 and beginning of 2021, meaning that treatments that palliate symptoms and prevent the most severe outcomes have been necessary for much of 2020 and will continue to be necessary for the foreseeable future [@url:https://github.com/greenelab/covid19-review/blob/master/content/22.vaccines.md].
```

Neither of these trajectories are comparable to that of SARS-CoV-2, which remains a serious threat worldwide more than a year after the first cases of COVID-19 emerged.

Current results suggest that pharmaceutical interventions for COVID-19 appear to be more successful than efforts to develop therapeutics for SARS and MERS were.
Care for SARS and MERS patients prioritized supportive care and symptom management [@doi:10.1093/ajcp/aqaa029].
To the extent that clinical treatments for SARS and MERS were explored, there is generally a lack of evidence supporting their efficacy.
For example, Ribavirin is an antiviral that was often used in combination with corticosteroids and sometimes interferon (IFN) medications to treat SARS and MERS [@doi:10.1038/nrmicro.2016.81], but its effects have been found to be inconclusive in retrospective and _in vitro_ analyses of SARS and the SARS-CoV-1 virus, respectively [@doi:10.1038/nrmicro.2016.81].
IFNs and Ribavirin have shown promise in _in vitro_ analyses of MERS, but their clinical effectiveness remains unknown [@doi:10.1038/nrmicro.2016.81].
Therefore, only limited pharmaceutical advances from prior HCoV outbreaks can be adopted to COVID-19.

> Importantly, though, prior analyses of the virological and pathogenic properties of SARS-CoV-1 and MERS-CoV have provided a strong foundation for the development of hypotheses about SARS-CoV-2 that have served to accelerated the development and identification of potential therapeutic approaches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Importantly, though, prior analyses of the virological and pathogenic properties of SARS-CoV-1 and MERS-CoV have provided a strong foundation for the development of hypotheses about SARS-CoV-2 that have served to accelerated the development and identification of potential therapeutic approaches.
Even during the early months of the pandemic, a number of studies have emerged investigating the potential effects of drugs with mechanisms suggested based on prior understanding of coronavirus-host interactions.
Initially, these were primarily observational studies, which simply compare groups of patients who did and did not receive a treatment to determine whether it may have an effect.
However, these studies are subject to confounding, and randomized controlled trials are the standard means of assessing the effects of medications.
In randomized controlled trials, patients are prospectively and randomly assigned to treatment conditions, allowing for much stronger interpretations to be drawn; however, data from these trials takes much longer to collect.
Both have proven to be important sources of information during the COVID-19 crisis, but as more results are released from randomized controlled trials, more definitive answers are becoming available about various proposed therapeutics.
```

Antiviral therapies hinder the spread of a virus within the host, rather than destroying existing copies of the virus, and these drugs can vary in their specificity to a narrow or broad range of viral targets.
For both categories, uncertainty often surrounds the treatments' exact mechanisms of action, as most therapies have secondary or off-target effects.

A large number of clinical trials investigating a range of possible therapeutics for COVID-19 are currently in progress or have already been completed (Figure @fig:ebm-trials).
The purpose of this review is to critically appraise the literature surrounding a subset of clinical trials and to evaluate a range of approaches to repurpose existing or develop novel approaches to the mitigation and treatment of coronavirus infections.
The treatments evaluated here are classified according to their biological properties, specifically whether they are biologics (produced from components of organisms) or small molecules.
Small molecule drugs include drugs targeted at viral particles, drugs targeted at host proteins, and broad spectrum pharmaceuticals, while biologics include antibodies and interferons.

> As we cover vaccines in a separate manuscript <!--cite it when available-->, we only consider therapies for the prevention of SARS-CoV-2 infection or COVID-19 in a very limited context here, for example when a drug is studied to see whether it can prevent infection or disease in recently-exposed individuals.

Reviewer: Thanks Ronan! I updated that one too.

This study reported a non-significant trend for patients receiving favipiravir to have a shorter hospital stay (13.29 days compared to 15.89 for CQ, _p_ = 0.06) and less likelihood of progressing to mechanical ventilation (_p_ = 0.118) or to an oxygen saturation < 90% (_p_ = 0.129).
These results, combined with the fact that favipiravir was being compared to CQ, which is now widely understood to be ineffective for treating COVID-19, thus do not suggest that favipiravir was likely to have had a strong effect on these outcomes.
On the other hand, another trial of 60 patients reported a significant effect of favipiravir on viral clearance at four days (a secondary endpoint), but not at 10 days (the primary endpoint) [@doi:10.1093/cid/ciaa1176].
This study, as well as a prior study of favipiravir [@doi:10/ftgm], also reported that the drug was generally well-tolerated.
Thus, in combination, these small studies suggest that the effects of favipiravir as a treatment for COVID-19 cannot be determined based on the available evidence, but additionally, none raise major concerns about the safety profile of the drug.

###### Remdesivir

> Remdesivir (GS-5734) is an intravenous antiviral that was developed by Gilead Sciences to treat Ebola virus disease (EVD). <!--Seems like it was developed against Hep-C and RSV, but wasn’t effective for them, then it was repurposed for Ebola eg https://www.nih.gov/news-events/nih-research-matters/final-report-confirms-remdesivir-benefits-covid-19 -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remdesivir (GS-5734) is an intravenous antiviral that was proposed by Gilead Sciences as a possible treatment for Ebola virus disease (EVD). <!--Seems like it was developed against Hep-C and RSV, but wasn’t effective for them, then it was repurposed for Ebola eg https://www.nih.gov/news-events/nih-research-matters/final-report-confirms-remdesivir-benefits-covid-19 -->
```

These results suggest that remdesivir could improve outcomes for patients with moderate COVID-19, but that additional information would be needed to understand the effects of different durations of treatment.
Therefore, the arguments put forward in defense of remdesivir do not necessarily seem robust in light of the large sample size used in the Solidarity trial, especially since the broad international nature of the Solidarity clinical trial, which included countries with a wide range of economic profiles and a variety of healthcare systems, provides a much-needed global perspective in a pandemic [@doi:10.1056/NEJMe2034294]. <!--This can be good and bad: For instance, the effect of remdesivir can be different in different countries, based on the way the SOC is applied (including general care conditions). Not sure if this is discussed in any of the papers.-->
On the other hand, only 62% of patients in the Solidarity trial were randomized on the day of admission or one day afterwards [@doi:10.1056/NEJMoa2023184], and concerns have been raised that differences in disease progression could influence the effectiveness of remdesivir [@doi:10.1056/NEJMe2034294]. 

> Furthermore

Author: Not sure why it shows up as an edited sentence...

> Furthermore

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I can just remove the "Furthermore!"

> Furthermore

Author: Sorry about that! Not sure how it got in!

The data did suggest that the 10-day course might reduce mortality in the most severe patients at day 14, but the representation of this group in the study population was too low to justify any conclusions [@doi:10.1056/NEJMoa2015301].
Thus, additional research is also required to determine whether the dosage and duration of remdesivir administration influences outcomes.

> In summary, remdesivir is a first in class drug due to its FDA approval. <!--It seems like “first in class” means it’s a novel mechanism. Not sure this is clear given the rest of the section-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In summary, remdesivir is the first FDA approved anti-viral against SARS-CoV-2 as well as the first FDA approved COVID-19 treatment.
```
Based on feedback from Jeff!
well novel in that it was the

CQ and hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) are lysosomotropic agents, meaning they are weak bases that can pass through the plasma membrane.
Both drugs increase cellular pH by accumulating in their protonated form inside lysosomes [@doi:10.1186/1743-422X-8-163; @doi:10.1111/j.1529-8019.2007.00131.x].

> These drugs are used for the treatment and prophylaxis of malaria, as well as the treatment of lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis in adults [@url:https://dailymed.nlm.nih.gov/dailymed/drugInfo.cfm?setid=34496b43-05a2-45fb-a769-52b12e099341].<!--To Do: Check citation built-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These drugs are used for the treatment and prophylaxis of malaria, as well as the treatment of lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis in adults [@url:https://dailymed.nlm.nih.gov/dailymed/drugInfo.cfm?setid=34496b43-05a2-45fb-a769-52b12e099341].<!--To Do: Add manual reference-->
```
Does not work!

Reviewer 2: I can go through and create the manual references after this is merged.  I'll search for comments with "manual reference" like you've been adding here.

This study investigated whether HCQ decreased time to fever break or time to cough relief when compared to SOC [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.22.20040758].
This trial found HCQ decreased both average time to fever break and average time to cough relief, defined as mild or no cough.
While this study improved on some of the methodological flaws in Gautret et al. by randomizing patients, it also had several flaws in trial design and data analysis that prevent generalization of the results.

> These weaknesses include the lack of placebo, lack of correction for multiple primary outcomes, inappropriate choice of outcomes, lack of sufficient detail to understand analysis, drastic disparities between pre-registration [@clinicaltrials:ChiCTR2000029559] and published protocol (including differences in the inclusion and exclusion criteria, the number of experimental groups, the number of patients enrolled, and the in the outcome analyzed), and small sample size.<!--To Do: Do Chinese clinical trial registry ids work? make sure this works at build.-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These weaknesses include the lack of placebo, lack of correction for multiple primary outcomes, inappropriate choice of outcomes, lack of sufficient detail to understand analysis, drastic disparities between pre-registration [@url:http://www.chictr.org.cn/showprojen.aspx?proj=48880] and published protocol (including differences in the inclusion and exclusion criteria, the number of experimental groups, the number of patients enrolled, and the in the outcome analyzed), and small sample size.<!--To Do: Add manual reference.-->
```

However, there are several factors that limit the interpretability of this study.
Most of the enrolled patients had mild-to-moderate symptoms (98%), and the average age was 46.
SOC in this study included the use of antivirals (Lopinavir-Ritonavir, Arbidol, Oseltamivir, Virazole, Entecavir, Ganciclovir, and Interferon alfa), which appeared to introduce confounding effects. <!--How so?-->
Thus, to isolate the effect of HCQ, SOC would need to exclude the use of antivirals.
In this trial, the samples used to test for the presence of the SARS-CoV-2 virus were collected from the upper respiratory tract, and the authors indicated that the use of upper respiratory samples may have introduced false negatives (e.g., [@doi:10.1001/jama.2020.3786]).
Another limitation of the study that the authors acknowledge was that the HCQ treatment began, on average, at a 16-day delay from the symptom onset.
The fact that this study was open-label and lacked a placebo limits interpretation, and additional analysis is required to determine whether HCQ reduces inflammatory response.

> Therefore, despite some potential areas of investigation identified in _post hoc_ analysis, this study cannot be interpreted as providing support for HCQ as a therapeutic against COVID-19. <!--I would think the main reason for this is that the negative seroconversion and the median time to symptom alleviation are very close between groups, so that alone - without the other issue - would be enough to lead to this interpretation.-->

Author: Sorry for being unclear! I meant that this study was a null study ("The primary endpoint of the study was the negative conversion rate of SARS-CoV-2 in 28 days, and the investigators found no difference in this parameter between the groups... The median time to symptom alleviation was similar across different conditions (19 days in HCQ+SOC vs. 21 days in SOC "), with HCQ actually showing more adverse events ("Additionally, 30% of the patients receiving SOC+HCQ reported adverse outcomes compared to 8.8% of patients receiving only SOC, with the most common adverse outcome in the SOC+HCQ group being diarrhea (10% vs. 0% in the SOC group, p=0.004). ") So I was wondering if we should restate the concluding sentence - right now it makes it seem like the study had design flaws but showed some positive associations for HCQ.

> Therefore, despite some potential areas of investigation identified in _post hoc_ analysis, this study cannot be interpreted as providing support for HCQ as a therapeutic against COVID-19. <!--I would think the main reason for this is that the negative seroconversion and the median time to symptom alleviation are very close between groups, so that alone - without the other issue - would be enough to lead to this interpretation.-->

Reviewer: Ah! Gotcha! Sorry for not understanding! How about this:
```suggestion
Therefore, despite some potential areas of investigation identified in _post hoc_ analysis, this study cannot be interpreted as providing support for HCQ as a therapeutic against COVID-19.
This study provided no support for HCQ against COVID-19, as there was no difference between the two groups in either negative seroconversion at 28 days or symptom alleviation, and in fact, more severe adverse outcomes were reported in the group receiving HCQ.
```

##### Dexamethasone

Dexamethasone (9&alpha;-fluoro-16&alpha;-methylprednisolone) is a synthetic corticosteroid that binds to glucocorticoid receptors [@doi:10.1021/cr068203e; @url:https://www.cebm.net/covid-19/dexamethasone/].

> It was first synthesized in the late 1950s as an anti-inflammatory and has been used to treat RA and other inflammatory conditions [@doi:10.1021/ja01545a061; @doi:10.1001/jama.1960.03030070009002], including allergies and asthma [@url:https://dailymed.nlm.nih.gov/dailymed/drugInfo.cfm?setid=537b424a-3e07-4c81-978c-1ad99014032a]. <!--Should also mention allergies and asthma. It actually has a wide number of listed uses on the label at https://dailymed.nlm.nih.gov/dailymed/drugInfo.cfm?setid=537b424a-3e07-4c81-978c-1ad99014032a (Under Indications and usage)--><!--To Do: Check reference built correctly-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It was first synthesized in the late 1950s as an anti-inflammatory and has been used to treat RA and other inflammatory conditions [@doi:10.1021/ja01545a061; @doi:10.1001/jama.1960.03030070009002], including allergies and asthma [@url:https://dailymed.nlm.nih.gov/dailymed/drugInfo.cfm?setid=537b424a-3e07-4c81-978c-1ad99014032a]. <!--Should also mention allergies and asthma. It actually has a wide number of listed uses on the label at https://dailymed.nlm.nih.gov/dailymed/drugInfo.cfm?setid=537b424a-3e07-4c81-978c-1ad99014032a (Under Indications and usage)--><!--To Do: Add manual ref-->
```

The results of the RECOVERY trial's analysis of dexamethasone suggest that this therapeutic is effective primarily in patients who had been experiencing symptoms for at least seven days and patients who were not breathing independently [@doi:10.1056/NEJMoa2021436].
A meta-analysis that evaluated the results of the RECOVERY trial alongside trials of other corticosteroids, such as hydrocortisone, similarly concluded that corticosteroids may be beneficial to patients with severe COVID-19 who are receiving oxygen supplementation [@doi:10.1053/j.jvca.2020.11.057].

> Thus, it seems likely that dexamethasone is useful for treating inflammation associated with immunopathy or cytokine release syndrome (CRS), which is a condition caused by detrimental hyperactivation of the immune system [@individual-pathogenesis].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, it seems likely that dexamethasone is useful for treating inflammation associated with immunopathy or cytokine release syndrome (CRS), which is a condition caused by detrimental overactivation of the immune system [@individual-pathogenesis].
```

The results of the RECOVERY trial's analysis of dexamethasone suggest that this therapeutic is effective primarily in patients who had been experiencing symptoms for at least seven days and patients who were not breathing independently [@doi:10.1056/NEJMoa2021436].
A meta-analysis that evaluated the results of the RECOVERY trial alongside trials of other corticosteroids, such as hydrocortisone, similarly concluded that corticosteroids may be beneficial to patients with severe COVID-19 who are receiving oxygen supplementation [@doi:10.1053/j.jvca.2020.11.057].

> Thus, it seems likely that dexamethasone is useful for treating inflammation associated with immunopathy or cytokine release syndrome (CRS). <!--Should have a brief description of CRS here and in the future, a reference to the pathogenesis paper-->

Reviewer 2: We can add the pathogenesis cross-reference now: `[@individual-pathogenesis]`

TCZ is a receptor antibody that was developed to manage chronic inflammation caused by the continuous synthesis of the cytokine IL-6 [@doi:10.1101/cshperspect.a016295].
IL-6 is a pro-inflammatory cytokine belonging to the interleukin family, which is comprised by immune system regulators that are primarily responsible for immune cell differentiation.
Often used to treat conditions such as RA [@doi:10.1101/cshperspect.a016295], TCZ has become a pharmaceutical of interest for the treatment of COVID-19 because of the role IL-6 plays in this disease.

> It has also been approved to treat CRS caused by CAR-T treatments [@url:https://dailymed.nlm.nih.gov/dailymed/drugInfo.cfm?setid=2e5365ff-cb2a-4b16-b2c7-e35c6bf2de13].<!-- To Do: check reference built-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It has also been approved to treat CRS caused by CAR-T treatments [@url:https://dailymed.nlm.nih.gov/dailymed/drugInfo.cfm?setid=2e5365ff-cb2a-4b16-b2c7-e35c6bf2de13].<!-- To Do: add manual ref-->
```

These signaling pathways are involved in a variety of different functions, including cell type differentiation, immunoglobulin synthesis, and cellular survival signaling pathways, respectively [@doi:10.3389/fimmu.2016.00604].
The ultimate result of the IL-6 cascade is to direct transcriptional activity of various promoters of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as IL-1, TFN, and even IL-6 itself, through the activity of NF-κB [@doi:10.3389/fimmu.2016.00604].
IL-6 synthesis is tightly regulated both transcriptionally and post-transcriptionally, and it has been shown that viral proteins can enhance transcription of the IL-6 gene by strengthening the DNA-binding activity between several transcription factors and IL-6 gene-cis-regulatory elements [@doi:10.2492/inflammregen.33.054].

> Therefore, drugs inhibiting the binding of IL-6 to IL-6R&alpha; or sIL-6R&alpha; are of interest for combating the hyperactive inflammatory response characteristic of CRS and CSS. <!--Aren't these the same thing?-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, drugs inhibiting the binding of IL-6 to IL-6R&alpha; or sIL-6R&alpha; are of interest for combating the hyperactive inflammatory response characteristic of CRS/CSS. <!--Aren't these the same thing?-->
```
It's not entirely clear to me whether CSS is a coherent concept, but it seems like the papers that refer to it don't use CRS so I would guess they are the same thing?

Despite this design, demographic factors did not appear to be consistent between the two groups, and the average age of the control group was older than the TCZ group.
The control group also had a higher percentage of males and a higher incidence of comorbidities such as diabetes and heart disease.
All the same, the multivariate HR, which adjusted for these clinical and demographic factors, found a significant difference between survival in the two groups (HR=0.035, CI=0.004-0.347, _p_ = 0.004).
The study reported improvement of survival outcomes after the addition of TCZ to the SOC regime, with 11 of 23 patients (47.8%) admitted prior to March 13th dying compared to 2 of 62 (3.2%) admitted afterwards (HR=0.035; 95% CI, 0.004 to 0.347; _p_ = 0.004).
They also reported a reduced progression to mechanical ventilation in the TCZ group.
However, this study also holds a significant limitation: the time delay between the two groups means that knowledge about how to treat the disease likely improved over this timeframe as well.
All the same, the results of these observational retrospective studies provide support for TCZ as a pharmaceutical of interest for follow-up in clinical trials.

> Other retrospective analyses have utilized a case-control design to match pairs of patients with similar baseline characteristics, only one of whom received TCZ for COVID-19. <!--Edited because case-control studies are a type of retrospective design.-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other retrospective analyses have utilized a case-control design to match pairs of patients with similar baseline characteristics, only one of whom received TCZ for COVID-19.
```

For the combined primary endpoint of death and/or ICU admission, only 25% of patients receiving TCZ progressed to an endpoint compared to 72% in the SOC group (_p_ = 0.002, presumably based on a chi-square test based on the information provided in the text).
When the two endpoints were examined separately, progression to invasive medical ventilation remained significant (32% SOC compared to 0% TCZ, _p_ = 0.006) but not for mortality (48% SOC compared to 25% TCZ, _p_ = 0.066).
In contrast, a study that compared 96 patients treated with TCZ to 97 patients treated with SOC only in New York City found that differences in mortality did not differ between the two groups, but that this difference did become significant when intubated patients were excluded from the analysis [@doi:10.1093/qjmed/hcaa206].
Taken together, these findings suggest that future clinical trials of TCZ may want to include intubation as an endpoint.
However, these studies should be approached with caution, not only because of the small number of patients enrolled and the retrospective design, but also because they performed a large number of statistical tests and did not account for multiple hypothesis testing.

> In general, caution must be exercised when interpreting subgroup analyses after a primary combined endpoint analysis. <!--Need to be careful about overinterpreting subgroup analyses. Combined endpoints (of 2 events, like death OR ICU admission) are also problematic, though they are often used to increase power.-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, caution must be exercised when interpreting subgroup analyses after a primary combined endpoint analysis.<!--Need to be careful about overinterpreting subgroup analyses. Combined endpoints (of 2 events, like death OR ICU admission) are also problematic, though they are often used to increase power.-->
```

> These last findings highlight the need to search for a balance between impairing a harmful immune response, such as the one generated during CRS and CSS, and preventing the worsening of the clinical picture of the patients by potential new viral infections. <!--Aren't CRS and CSS the same thing?-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These last findings highlight the need to search for a balance between impairing a harmful immune response, such as the one generated during CRS/CSS, and preventing the worsening of the clinical picture of the patients by potential new viral infections.
```

Reactivation of hepatitis B and herpes simplex virus 1 was also reported in a small number of patients in this study, all of whom were receiving TCZ.
A July 2020 case report described negative outcomes of two COVID-19 patients after receiving TCZ, including one death; however, both patients were intubated and had entered septic shock prior to receiving TCZ [@doi:10.1016/j.chest.2020.04.024], likely indicating a severe level of cytokine production.
Additionally, D-dimer and sIL2R levels were reported by one study to increase in patients treated with TCZ, which raised concerns because of the potential association between elevated D-dimer levels and thrombosis and between sIL2R and diseases where T-cell regulation is compromised [@doi:10.1016/j.chest.2020.06.006].
An increased risk of bacterial infection was also identified in a systematic review of the literature, based on the unadjusted estimates reported [@doi:10.2139/ssrn.3642653].
TCZ administration to COVID-19 patients is not without risks, may introduce additional risk of developing secondary infections, and should be approached especially cautiously for patients who have latent viral infections.

> In summary, approximately 25% of hospitalized coronavirus patients develop ARDS, which is caused by an excessive early response of the immune system which can be a component of CRS [@doi:10.1016/j.chest.2020.06.006] and CSS [@doi:10.1186/s12967-020-02339-3]. <!--Are CRS and CSS different from each other?--> <!--ARDS is only developed by 25% of *hospitalized* patients, not all patients. Should include a reference for that - I found this https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7441837/, which estimates this at 33%.--> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In summary, approximately 33% of hospitalized COVID-19 patients develop ARDS [@doi:10.1186/s13054-020-03240-7], which is caused by an excessive early response of the immune system which can be a component of CRS/CSS [@doi:10.1016/j.chest.2020.06.006; @doi:10.1186/s12967-020-02339-3].
```

Monoclonal antibodies have revolutionized the way we treat human diseases.
They have become some of the best-selling drugs in the pharmaceutical market in recent years [@doi:10.1186/s12929-019-0592-z].
There are currently 79 FDA approved mAbs on the market, including antibodies for viral infections (e.g. Ibalizumab for HIV and Palivizumab for RSV) [@doi:10.1186/s12929-019-0592-z; @doi:10.1146/annurev-immunol-032712-095916].

> Virus-specific nAbs commonly target viral surface glycoproteins or host structures, thereby inhibiting viral entry through receptor binding interference [@doi:10.3389/fmicb.2017.02323; @doi:10.1080/21645515.2017.1337614]. <!--Are these all monoclonal? If not, the flow is a bit off-->

Reviewer: @nilswellhausen do you know the answer to this?

Reviewer 3: As I said this section is outdated by now. I will try to get to this ASAP. Recombinantly expressed neutralizing antibodies such as REGN-COV2 (what former Pres. Trump got) are monoclonal. I think I need to do a better job saying that I focus on therapeutic antibodies and not the neutralizing antibodies that a person developes during an ongoing infection

Reviewer: Thanks @nilswellhausen! I truly know nothing about this topic, I think I learned a little background for when I was reading through your text last year, but that's it!

**Mechanism of Action for Potential Therapeutics**
Potential therapeutics currently being studied can target the SARS-CoV-2 virus or modify the host environment through many different mechanisms.
Here, the relationship between the virus and several therapeutics described above are visualized.

> ](images/N001-LifeCyclePlusDrugs.png){#fig:therapeutics secno=1} <!--Step #5 is not labeled-->

Reviewer: @nilswellhausen would you be able to add a 5 into this? Sorry I missed it at review!

Reviewer 3: ![COVID life cycle and drugs (1)](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/62564517/108059071-f665d580-7022-11eb-95d9-29f2c62a24c0.png)

Author: Great! It seems like step "9" should be "8" though. Also, the circles around 5-7 are much bigger than the others (that's not a big deal, so we can probably fix it in the revision.)

Reviewer 3: oh wow I just saw that the circles just got all messed up. Let me fix that really quick. Not sure what happened there as it looked normal on my end.

Reviewer 3: ![COVID life cycle and drugs (2)](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/62564517/108085902-d0046200-7043-11eb-9096-26d1b1988daa.png)

Author: Thank you! Looks awesome!

One additional concern is that the presentation of COVID-19 appears to be heterogeneous across the lifespan.
Many adult cases, especially in younger adults, present with mild symptoms or even asymptomatically, while others, especially in older adults, can be severe or fatal.

> In children, the SARS-CoV-2 virus can present as two distinct diseases, COVID-19 or MIS-C. <!--Should give brief explanation and reference for MIS-C.-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In children, the SARS-CoV-2 viral infection can present either as a respiratory illness comparable to COVID-19 or as an inflammatory condition, known as multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children, for which presentation is similar to Kawasaki Disease [@doi:10.1038/s41390-020-1053-9].
```

Over the longer term, this approach and others may lead to the development of novel therapeutics specifically for COVID-19 and SARS-CoV-2.
<!-- This section could be updated with most recent information on drug discovery efforts -->

> #### Conclusions <!--I’m not sure we need this section. We’ve stated these things before in this manuscript and the section reads as how useful it’s been to learn from SARS-CoV-2 and MERS-CoV – it has been useful, but I don’t think we need that as the overall conclusion…-->

Reviewer: I feel a little weird ending on the potential avenues section, if anyone has any ideas for how to flesh out conclusions, that would be awesome!

Reviewer 4: I think the mini conclusion that is there is sufficient. As Simina says we conclude a lot within the manuscript.

Author: So do we want to keep it or no? Either way is fine with me!

Reviewer 4: I always feel weird ending a review without some sort of concluding part, but I will let this one up to you folks :)

Reviewer: I think I feel the same as @RLordan -- leave it for now, but maybe we can add the table here to give it more teeth?
